doc/git-mr-to.1.adoc, before:

= git-mr-to(1)
:man source: git mr-to 0.0.GIT
:man manual: git mr-to
:uri-flow: https://scottchacon.com/2011/08/31/github-flow.html

== NAME

git-mr-to - Open Web browser at URL to create new merge request

== SYNOPSIS

*git mr-to* [_remote_ [_destination_ [_source_]]]

== DESCRIPTION

*git mr-to* opens a Web browser at the URL for creating a new _merge request_.
It is optimized for workflows where topic branches are merged directly to the
_master_ branch, such as the popular _GitHub
Flow_{empty}footnoteref:[github-flow,{uri-flow}].

*git mr-to* has varying degrees of support for, in alphabetical order, the
following repository hosting services:

* Bitbucket
* GitHub
* GitLab

See *<<_provider_support>>* for details.

== OPTIONS

_remote_::

    The remote against whose project URL to create the merge request. If only a
    single remote is configured in the repository, all arguments can be omitted
    to create a merge request from the _current branch_ to the _master_ branch
    of the configured remote.


_destination_::

    The branch in _remote_ to merge into. If omitted it defaults to _master_.


_source_::

    The branch to merge into _destination_. If omitted it defaults to the
    _current branch_.

== PROVIDER SUPPORT

Functionality depends on the repository hosting service provider. Here are all
the supported providers and their limitations:

_Bitbucket_::

    Limited to intra-project merge requests. Inter-project merge requests are
    not supported because no working URL format for this scenario has been
    found.

_GitHub_::

    Full intra-project and inter-project merge request support.

_GitLab_::

    Limited to intra-project merge requests. Inter-project merge requests are
    not supported because the URL format for this scenario uses internal
    numerical project IDs instead of project names.

Inter-project support requires the downstream remote -- i.e., your fork -- to
be named _origin_. If a repository has multiple configured remotes, none of
which are named _origin_, *git mr-to* will not be able to infer the
upstream/downstream relationship. In that case it will issue a warning but
proceed, allowing the user to configure the merge request manually.

== EXAMPLES

Create a merge request from the _current branch_ towards _master_ of the sole
configured remote; error in case of no or multiple remotes:

----
$ git mr-to
----

Create a merge request from the local _frobnicate-discombobulator_ branch
towards the _staging_ branch of the remote named _upstream_:

----
$ git mr-to upstream staging frobnicate-discombobulator
----

== AUTHOR

link:mailto:commonquail@gmail.com[Mikkel Kjeldsen]

== REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs and feature requests on the main project development page at
https://gitlab.com/mkjeldsen/git-mr-to/

== COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2018 Mikkel Kjeldsen

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the Free
Software Foundation.

Commit message:

Make Web browser command overridable
Specify the command with which to open the merge request Web page with
the GIT_MR_TO_BROWSER environment variable. Helpful for testing by just
printing out the URL, and for systems without xdg-open or users with
other preferences.

doc/git-mr-to.1.adoc, after:

= git-mr-to(1)
:man source: git mr-to 0.0.GIT
:man manual: git mr-to
:uri-flow: https://scottchacon.com/2011/08/31/github-flow.html

== NAME

git-mr-to - Open Web browser at URL to create new merge request

== SYNOPSIS

*git mr-to* [_remote_ [_destination_ [_source_]]]

== DESCRIPTION

*git mr-to* opens a Web browser at the URL for creating a new _merge request_.
It is optimized for workflows where topic branches are merged directly to the
_master_ branch, such as the popular _GitHub
Flow_{empty}footnoteref:[github-flow,{uri-flow}].

*git mr-to* has varying degrees of support for, in alphabetical order, the
following repository hosting services:

* Bitbucket
* GitHub
* GitLab

See *<<_provider_support>>* for details.

== OPTIONS

_remote_::

    The remote against whose project URL to create the merge request. If only a
    single remote is configured in the repository, all arguments can be omitted
    to create a merge request from the _current branch_ to the _master_ branch
    of the configured remote.


_destination_::

    The branch in _remote_ to merge into. If omitted it defaults to _master_.


_source_::

    The branch to merge into _destination_. If omitted it defaults to the
    _current branch_.

== PROVIDER SUPPORT

Functionality depends on the repository hosting service provider. Here are all
the supported providers and their limitations:

_Bitbucket_::

    Limited to intra-project merge requests. Inter-project merge requests are
    not supported because no working URL format for this scenario has been
    found.

_GitHub_::

    Full intra-project and inter-project merge request support.

_GitLab_::

    Limited to intra-project merge requests. Inter-project merge requests are
    not supported because the URL format for this scenario uses internal
    numerical project IDs instead of project names.

Inter-project support requires the downstream remote -- i.e., your fork -- to
be named _origin_. If a repository has multiple configured remotes, none of
which are named _origin_, *git mr-to* will not be able to infer the
upstream/downstream relationship. In that case it will issue a warning but
proceed, allowing the user to configure the merge request manually.

== ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

The program's behavior can be altered with an environment variable:

*GIT_MR_TO_BROWSER*::

    When the environment variable *GIT_MR_TO_BROWSER* is set, it names a
    command with which to open the merge request Web page instead of the
    default command of *xdg-open*(1).

== EXAMPLES

Create a merge request from the _current branch_ towards _master_ of the sole
configured remote; error in case of no or multiple remotes:

----
$ git mr-to
----

Create a merge request from the local _frobnicate-discombobulator_ branch
towards the _staging_ branch of the remote named _upstream_:

----
$ git mr-to upstream staging frobnicate-discombobulator
----

Open the merge request in *lynx*(1) (probably not recommended...), passing the
_-vikeys_ option:

----
$ GIT_MR_TO_BROWSER="lynx -vikeys" git mr-to
----

== AUTHOR

link:mailto:commonquail@gmail.com[Mikkel Kjeldsen]

== REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs and feature requests on the main project development page at
https://gitlab.com/mkjeldsen/git-mr-to/

== COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2018 Mikkel Kjeldsen

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the Free
Software Foundation.
